Harbor Docker Registry Documentation (#710)
netgroup-polito/CrownLabs: infrastructure/docker-registry/README.md

# Harbor Docker registry

## Table of contents
- [What is it](#what-is-it)
- [Why do we need it](#why-do-we-need-it)
- [Docker registry Helm Chart](#harbor-registry-helm-chart)
  - [Pre-requisites](#pre-requisites)
  - [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Installing the chart](#installing-the-chart)

## What is it

> From the [Docker Registry](https://docs.docker.com/registry/) official documentation: A Registry is a stateless, highly scalable server-side application that stores and lets you distribute Docker images. [Harbor](https://goharbor.io/) is an open source registry having a lot of features, such as vulnerability scanner, robot account and so on. For more information visit the official web page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the [Docker Registry](https://docs.docker.com/registry/) official documentation: A Registry is a stateless, highly scalable server-side application that stores and lets you distribute Docker images. [Harbor](https://goharbor.io/) is an open source registry having a lot of features, such as an advanced UI, a vulnerability scanner, robot accounts and so on. For more information visit the official web page.
```

## Why do we need it?
You should use the Harbor Registry if you want to:
- tightly control where your images are being stored
- fully own your images distribution pipeline
- integrate image storage and distribution tightly into your in-house development workflow
- leverage the high-speed network that connects your servers, avoiding to consume precious Internet bandwidth to transfer images stored in the Docker Hub public service.

> - [Proxy Cache](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.4.0/administration/configure-proxy-cache/) to not exceed Docker Hub’s rate limit policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- leverage [Proxy Cache](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.4.0/administration/configure-proxy-cache/) functionalities, to not exceed Docker Hub’s rate limiting policy.
```

> - have a [vulnerability scanner](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.4.0/administration/vulnerability-scanning/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- have a [vulnerability scanner](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.4.0/administration/vulnerability-scanning/) to detect possible image vulnerabilities.
```

> - manage your [Chart](https://goharbor.io/docs/edge/working-with-projects/working-with-images/managing-helm-charts/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- manage your [Helm Chart](https://goharbor.io/docs/edge/working-with-projects/working-with-images/managing-helm-charts/)
```

> - [Create System Robot Accounts](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.4.0/administration/robot-accounts/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Would say this is more a requirement than a nice feature.

Finally, consider that, in this Kubernetes setup, users instantiate mainly VMs, whose image may be rather large. Allowing users to download the VM image locally, instead of from a remote server, would greatly impact on their quality of experience in term of time required to start their service.

> ## Docker Registry Helm Chart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Harbor Registry Helm Chart
```

> We used the [Harbor Registry Helm Chart](https://github.com/goharbor/harbor-helm), that is a Kubernetes chart to deploy a private Harbor Registry where we have appropriately modified the values in [values.yaml](https://github.com/goharbor/harbor-helm/blob/master/values.yaml) file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install Harbor, it is possible to leverage the [official Helm Chart](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/docker-registry), appropriately configuring the `values.yaml` file (additional details follow in the next sections).
```

### Pre-requisites

  1. [Kubernetes cluster 1.10+](https://kubernetes.io/releases/download/)

>   2. [Helm 2.8.0+](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)

Reviewer: Would write Helm 3 as requirement, to prevent confusion

  3. [High available ingress controller](https://github.com/netgroup-polito/CrownLabs/tree/master/infrastructure/ingress-controller) (Harbor does not manage the external endpoint)
  4. [High available PostgreSQL 9.6+](#https://github.com/netgroup-polito/CrownLabs/tree/master/infrastructure/identity-provider#postgresql-operator) (Harbor does not handle the deployment of HA of database)
  5. [High available Redis](#https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/master/bitnami/redis/#installing-the-chart) (Harbor does not handle the deployment of HA of Redis)

>   6. PVC that can be shared across nodes or external object storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  6. PVC that can be shared across nodes (i.e., with `ReadWriteMany` access mode) or external object storage
```

> ### Configuration

Reviewer: Would create two preliminary sections dealing with the deployment and configuration of postgres and redis.

> These are our modification of the various file. They all refer to the values.yaml file except the configuration n. 5 and 6. These 2 configuration refer respectively to postgres postgres_cluster_manifest.yaml and redis_service_values.yaml file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following outlines the most relevant modifications applied to the Harbor `values.yaml` file:
```

In the list below, I would just outline the main modifications, to avoid them from becoming stale as soon as something is updated.

  5. For the installation of Redis service, please see the link on the pre-requisites section. In our architecture we have a [Redis-Sentinel](https://redis.io/topics/sentinel) service, instead of [Redis Cluster](https://redis.io/topics/cluster-tutorial) by setting the following parameter in the file values of redis_service_values.yaml file. In the file you have to set an IP for the ClusterIP of the sentinel where after harbor is attached in the cluster and a name for your master. If you want have the replicas of redis running in different nodes you have to set the replica.podAntiAffinityPreset parameter to soft or hard, depending what you need. Please see this [link](https://docs.bitnami.com/tutorials/assign-pod-nodes-helm-affinity-rules/) to see the differences.
  ```yaml 
  sentinel.enabled=true
  ```
  6. For the external redis service you have to modify the redis.type parameter to external and have to set the same IP and the same master name of the previous redis service respectively in redis.external.addr parameter and in redis.external.sentinelMasterSet parameter.

## Installing the Chart

> Before install the chart, the repository must be add to helm with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before installing the chart, the Harbor repository must be added to helm with the following command:
```

```bash

> helm repo add harbor https://helm.goharbor.io

Reviewer: ```suggestion
helm repo add harbor https://helm.goharbor.io
helm repo update
```

```

> To install the chart, use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the chart with the release name `harbor` and apply the configuration specified by the `harbor-values.yaml` file, it is possible to proceed as follows:
```

Would directly add the correct command below (the one you used to deploy the manifest), to simplify future upgrades.

## What is it
From the [Docker Registry](https://docs.docker.com/registry/) official documentation: A Registry is a stateless, highly scalable server-side application that stores and lets you distribute Docker images. [Harbor](https://goharbor.io/) is an open source registry having a lot of features, such as an advanced UI, a vulnerability scanner, robot accounts and so on. For more information visit the official web page.

## Why do we need it?
You should use the Harbor Registry if you want to:
- tightly control where your images are being stored
- fully own your images distribution pipeline
- integrate image storage and distribution tightly into your in-house development workflow
- leverage the high-speed network that connects your servers, avoiding to consume precious Internet bandwidth to transfer images stored in the Docker Hub public service.
- leverage [Proxy Cache](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.4.0/administration/configure-proxy-cache/) functionalities, to not exceed Docker Hub’s rate limiting policy.
- have a [vulnerability scanner](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.4.0/administration/vulnerability-scanning/) to detect possible image vulnerabilities.

> - manage your [Helm Chart](https://goharbor.io/docs/edge/working-with-projects/working-with-images/managing-helm-charts/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- manage your [Helm Charts](https://goharbor.io/docs/edge/working-with-projects/working-with-images/managing-helm-charts/)
```

please, add also a full stop (or a semicolon) at the end of each list entry.

## Harbor Registry Helm Chart
To install Harbor, it is possible to leverage the [official Helm Chart](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/docker-registry), appropriately configuring the `values.yaml` file (additional details follow in the next sections).

### Pre-requisites

  1. [Kubernetes cluster 1.10+](https://kubernetes.io/releases/download/)
  2. [Helm 3](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
  3. [High available ingress controller](https://github.com/netgroup-polito/CrownLabs/tree/master/infrastructure/ingress-controller) (Harbor does not manage the external endpoint)
  4. [High available PostgreSQL 9.6+](#https://github.com/netgroup-polito/CrownLabs/tree/master/infrastructure/identity-provider#postgresql-operator) (Harbor does not handle the deployment of HA of database)
  5. [High available Redis](#https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/master/bitnami/redis/#installing-the-chart) (Harbor does not handle the deployment of HA of Redis)
  6. PVC that can be shared across nodes (i.e., with `ReadWriteMany` access mode) or external object storage

### Redis Configuration

> For the installation of Redis service, please see the link on the pre-requisites section. In our architecture we have a [Redis-Sentinel](https://redis.io/topics/sentinel) service, instead of [Redis Cluster](https://redis.io/topics/cluster-tutorial) by setting the following parameter in the file values of redis_service_values.yaml file. In the file you have to set an IP for the ClusterIP of the sentinel where after harbor is attached in the cluster and a name for your master. If you want have the replicas of redis running in different nodes you have to set the replica.podAntiAffinityPreset parameter to soft or hard, depending what you need. Please see this [link](https://docs.bitnami.com/tutorials/assign-pod-nodes-helm-affinity-rules/) to see the differences.

Reviewer: Some comments:
* Please, write each sentence on its own line, so that it is better handled by git
* Which link are you referring to?
* When you say something, add also a motivation (why is it used sentinel instead of redis cluster?)
* Add the full command to install/upgrade redis, so that it is easier to upgrade it in future (`helm upgrade --install ...`)

  ```yaml 
  sentinel.enabled=true
  ```
To deploy Redis service, please see the link on the pre-requisites section.
  
### Postgres Configuration

> For the installation of Postgres service, please see the link on the pre-requisites section.

Reviewer: Same as above. Which link are you referring to? Please, add the instructions to create the database (i.e., apply the yaml file)

  1. Annotations concerning the configuration of the Ingress controller. You have to set the type of the ingress (in our file values.yaml the type of the ingress is ingress) in the expose.type parameter.

  2. The external URL to expose the Harbor Registry. To set the external URL you have to set the externalURL parameter

  3. For the external redis service you have to modify the redis.type parameter to external and have to set the same master name of the previous redis service in redis.external.sentinelMasterSet parameter.

## Installing the Chart
Before installing the chart, the Harbor repository must be added to helm with the following command:
```bash
helm repo add harbor https://helm.goharbor.io
helm repo update
```
To install the chart with the release name `harbor` and apply the configuration specified by the `harbor-values.yaml` file, it is possible to proceed as follows:
```bash
$ helm install my-release harbor/harbor
```
The above command install a release called 'my-release'. If you want install a release starting from a values.yaml file, you can use the following command:
```bash

> $ helm install my-release harbor/harbor -f values.yaml

Reviewer: Please, replace this generic commands with the complete one used to install/upgrade harbor.

## Harbor Registry Helm Chart
To install Harbor, it is possible to leverage the [official Helm Chart](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/docker-registry), appropriately configuring the `values.yaml` file (additional details follow in the next sections).

### Pre-requisites

  1. Kubernetes cluster 1.10+
  2. [Helm 3](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
  3. High available ingress controller (Harbor does not manage the external endpoint)
  4. [High available PostgreSQL 9.6+](#postgres-configuration) (Harbor does not handle the HA deployment of the database)
  5. [High available Redis](#redis-configuration) (Harbor does not handle the HA deployment of Redis)
  6. PVC that can be shared across nodes (i.e., with `ReadWriteMany` access mode) or external object storage

### Redis Configuration
In our architecture we have a [Redis-Sentinel](https://redis.io/topics/sentinel) service, instead of [Redis Cluster](https://redis.io/topics/cluster-tutorial), because with this architecture Sentinel manages automatically the failover of the master.

> To enable the `Redis-Sentinel ` architecture it is necessary to the following parameter in the redis file values (`redis-service-values.yaml`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the `Redis-Sentinel ` architecture it is necessary to configure the following parameter in the redis file values (`redis-service-values.yaml`):
```

```yaml 
  sentinel.enabled=true
```

To deploy Redis service, it is possible to proceed as follows:
```bash
helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
helm upgrade redis bitnami/redis --namespace harbor \
    --install --create-namespace --values redis-service-values.yaml
```

### Postgres Configuration
A pre-requisite to deploy PostregreSQL cluster is the [PostgreSQL-Operator](https://github.com/netgroup-polito/CrownLabs/tree/master/infrastructure/identity-provider#postgresql-operator), because it delivers an easy way to run highly-available PostgreSQL clusters on Kubernetes.
Once you have a PostgreSQL-Operator running, you can create your PostgreSQL cluster with the following command:
```bash

> $ kubectl apply -f postgres-cluster-manifest.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl apply -f postgres-cluster-manifest.yaml
```

Just for consistency with the other commands

```

> This command create the database and apply the confguration specified by the `postgres-cluster-manifest.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command creates the database and applies the configuration specified by the `postgres-cluster-manifest.yaml`.
```

- have a [vulnerability scanner](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.4.0/administration/vulnerability-scanning/) to detect possible image vulnerabilities.
- manage your [Helm Charts](https://goharbor.io/docs/edge/working-with-projects/working-with-images/managing-helm-charts/).

Finally, consider that, in this Kubernetes setup, users instantiate mainly VMs, whose image may be rather large. Allowing users to download the VM image locally, instead of from a remote server, would greatly impact on their quality of experience in term of time required to start their service.

## Harbor Registry Helm Chart
To install Harbor, it is possible to leverage the [official Helm Chart](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/docker-registry), appropriately configuring the `values.yaml` file (additional details follow in the next sections).

### Pre-requisites

  1. [Kubernetes cluster 1.10+](https://kubernetes.io/releases/download/)
  2. [Helm 3](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
  3. [High available ingress controller](https://github.com/netgroup-polito/CrownLabs/tree/master/infrastructure/ingress-controller) (Harbor does not manage the external endpoint)

>   4. [High available PostgreSQL 9.6+](https://github.com/netgroup-polito/CrownLabs/tree/master/infrastructure/identity-provider#postgresql-operator) (Harbor does not handle the deployment of HA of database)

Reviewer: Would remove all those links (but the one for Helm), and move the postgres and redis one directly to the appropriate section.

>   5. [High available Redis](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/master/bitnami/redis#redis-chart-packaged-by-bitnami) (Harbor does not handle the deployment of HA of Redis)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  5. [High available Redis](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/master/bitnami/redis#redis-chart-packaged-by-bitnami) (Harbor does not handle the HA deployment of Redis)
```

  6. PVC that can be shared across nodes (i.e., with `ReadWriteMany` access mode) or external object storage

### Redis Configuration
For the installation of Redis service, please see the link on the pre-requisites section about the `High available Redis`.

> In our architecture we have a [Redis-Sentinel](https://redis.io/topics/sentinel) service, instead of [Redis Cluster](https://redis.io/topics/cluster-tutorial), because with this architecture Sentinel manages automatically the failover of Master.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our architecture we have a [Redis-Sentinel](https://redis.io/topics/sentinel) service, instead of [Redis Cluster](https://redis.io/topics/cluster-tutorial), because with this architecture Sentinel manages automatically the failover of the master.
```

> It is possible have a `Redis-Sentinel ` architecture by setting the following parameter in the file values of redis_service_values.yaml file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the `Redis-Sentinel ` architecture it is necessary to the following parameter in the redis file values (`redis-service-values.yaml`):
```

  ```yaml 
  sentinel.enabled=true
  ```

> In the file you have to set an IP for the ClusterIP of the sentinel where after harbor is attached in the cluster and a name for your master. If you want have the replicas of redis running in different nodes you have to set the replica.podAntiAffinityPreset parameter to soft or hard, depending what you need. Please see this [link](https://docs.bitnami.com/tutorials/assign-pod-nodes-helm-affinity-rules/) to see the differences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> To deploy Redis service, please see the link on the pre-requisites section or it is possible to proceed as follow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy Redis service, it is necessary to first configure the appropriate repository:
```

```bash
$ helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami

> $ helm install my-release bitnami/redis
> $ helm upgrade --install redis bitnami/redis -f values.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> To deploy Redis service, please see the link on the pre-requisites section or it is possible to proceed as follow:
> ```bash
> $ helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
> $ helm install my-release bitnami/redis
> $ helm upgrade --install redis bitnami/redis -f values.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy Redis service, it is possible to proceed as follows:
```bash
helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
helm upgrade redis bitnami/redis --namespace harbor \
    --install --create-namespace --values redis-service-values.yaml
```

```

> the last commannd install/upgrade the chart with the release name `redis` and apply the configuration specified by the `values.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  
### Postgres Configuration
For the installation of Postgres service, please see the link on the pre-requisites section about the `High available PostgreSQL 9.6+` or it is possible to proceed as follow:
```bash
$ kubectl apply -f values.yaml
```

> This command create the database and apply the confguration specified by the `values.yaml`.

Reviewer: Please, make this section more explicative. With no prior knowledge, would you be able to create the database from the instructions written here? I doubt so, as the `values.yaml` file does not even exist. Additionally, you should mention a prerequisite is the postgres operator, explain why and add a link to the documentation to install it (within the CrownLabs repo).

### Harbor Configuration

> The following outlines the most relevant modifications applied to the Harbor `values.yaml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following outlines the most relevant modifications applied to the Harbor values file (`harbor-values.yaml`):
```

>   1. Annotations concerning the configuration of the Ingress controller. You have to set the type of the ingress (in our file values.yaml the type of the ingress is ingress) in the expose.type parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Configuration of how the harbor registry is exposed (i.e., by means of an ingress), the external URL and accessory parameters (e.g., the annotations concerning certificate generation).
```

As already written, please try to be more generic.

>   2. The external URL to expose the Harbor Registry. To set the external URL you have to set the externalURL parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. Configuration of the parameters to access the Postgres database created previously.
```

>   3. For the external redis service you have to modify the redis.type parameter to external and have to set the same master name of the previous redis service in redis.external.sentinelMasterSet parameter.

Reviewer: Configuration of the parameters to access the Redis service deployed previously.

## Installing the Chart
Before installing the chart, the Harbor repository must be added to helm with the following command:
```bash
helm repo add harbor https://helm.goharbor.io
helm repo update
```
To install the chart with the release name `harbor` and apply the configuration specified by the `harbor-values.yaml` file, it is possible to proceed as follows:
```bash

> $ helm install my-release harbor/harbor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
helm upgrade harbor harbor/harbor --namespace harbor \
    --install --create-namespace --values harbor-values.yaml
```

```

> The above command upgrade/install a release called 'my-release'. If you want install a release starting from a values.yaml file, you can use the following command:
> ```bash
> $ helm upgrade --install my-release harbor/harbor -f values.yaml
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Warning: credentials and secret parameters have been redacted from the values file stored in this repository.
```
